# Trace Context reference

This section outlines the implementation of the [Trace Context](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context){:target="_blank"} standard within the signare.

It is intended for developers and system administrators who are interested in understanding how trace information is managed and 
propagated across the application within a specific request.

## Key Features

1. **Trace Context Propagation**: When making requests to our API, users can include the `traceparent` and `tracestate` headers according to the 
W3C Trace Context specification. If provided, these headers will be included in the response headers, allowing downstream systems to correlate traces.

2. **Logging Integration**: With the implementation of the Trace Context standard, parent and span IDs are automatically included as attributes 
in the logs generated by the signare for every API request.

## Usage Guidelines

- Users do not need to configure trace context behaviour within the signare. The signare implementation automatically applies it to all 
the requests and responses handled.

- When interacting with our API, external systems are encouraged to include the `traceparent` and `tracestate` headers in their requests to ensure proper trace 
propagation across distributed systems.

- By leveraging the trace context functionality, users can gain insights into request flows and performance characteristics of their 
applications, facilitating efficient monitoring and troubleshooting.

Example of `traceparent` and `tracestate` request headers:
```http
traceparent: 00-0af7651916cd43dd8448eb211c80319c-00f067aa0ba902b7-01
tracestate: congo=t61rcWkgMzE
```

For further details on how to leverage trace context functionality in your applications, refer to the [Trace Context](https://www.w3.org/TR/trace-context){:target="_blank"} specification documentation.
